---
date: '20140306'
latitude: -8.0813889
longitude: -79.1202778
city: Huanchaco
country: Peru
flickr_link: '72157642023278045'
---

Another unerestimated day of riding. Google maps said three and a half hours. I knew it was lying, but I didn't think it could possibly be off by six hours. 

It all started off marvelously. This was the sort of geography I was really looking forward to seeing, mountains that look like sky scrapers, with winding roads carved into the face of them. And then my day took a turn, literal and figurative, for the rainy and muddy.  

I started down a road that was clearly much smaller than the one that I was on, and I knew I had a choice right then to spend a lot more time or not. "ADVENTURE" I yelled to myself, and went for it. It wasn't long before the pavement was gone and I arrived in a small village. I ended up asking a woman carrying wood where the heck I was going. She gave me directions, and then wished me good luck. I started to ride off up into thick fog, and wondered why she had bothered to wish me luck, was I going to need luck? Occasionally I would see women walking down the mountain... and they all seemed to be spinning yarn with their hands as they walked. I rode on. The next sign of life was something like a tiny village with muddy streets. I had to go around a vehichle that was trying to pick up a load of bricks, and ended up getting stuck in a very deep rut filled with water. Someone helped me drag my bike out of it. And on I went, slipping and sliding up the mountain. After another hour or so of riding I realized I was no longer on the map, and had to rely on directions from people on the road, which was a bit unnerving, because some of them looked at me as though I were going the wrong way, and others said it was doable. I think a lot of the people I spoke to just don't leave their village, and so they might not have much of an idea. 

Many times my motorcycle would start to sputter and wheeze in the altitude, and many times I would have to adjust my idle as my altitude changed. A few hours later and I knew I should have been well done by now. I was now further than before from anything on my map, and beginning to wonder how much gas was left in my tank. It was full on pouring now, and I was wet to the core. I have to admit I was a bit stressed about being out there outside of cell reception, on the side of a cliff in the rain, not sure where I was, and uncertain of my fuel level. But then thinking more logically about it, there are people up and down this road ever little bit, I don't know from where or why, but they come, and if I truly did have trouble, I would be helped. Somehow though, the uncertainty of the situation made me slighty uncomfortable. But, surely I was more than half way in, surely. Turning around and I might not make it back, I must press on. 

I made it to another town, and there was pavement! I had made it. This was the road the people were talking about. I rode for about two minutes on pavement and then I came to a water crossing. This was undoubtedly the most psychologically challening water crossing of my life. It was about twenty-five feet across, with a rocky patch in the middle. The water was brown and white and moving quickly, all falling down to immediately go over a cliff. It occurred to me that the motorcycle might actually be swept off of a cliff if it were to lay down in the water. It was difficult to judge the depth of the water due to its opaque storm water brown, judging by its speed and surface texture I guessed it to be about a foot deep with large jagged cubish rocks underneath (just like the ones it was surrounded with). I paused for a moment, and realized there were people watching me... I went for it, gassing right through first section with all sorts of steam coming off of my radiator. I paused at an island of sharp rocks. It was over, I knew the second part would be easier so I went for it.

Shortly after that, the road immediately turned back to dirt. And went on and on, down and down. On the way through the switchbacks I heard a squeak from my rear brake and stopped to look at it. I was out of brake. I had just looked at it the day before and thought that I had at least a few more days riding on those pads (I really didn't like my current location for working on the bike then). So, then it became a game of riding and engine breaking. 

Not long after I came to a couple that were stopped next to their motorcycle on the side of the road. I asked if everything was alright, even though it clearly was not. It wasn't a great place to hang out, and it was pouring rain. They had a snapped clutch cable. He had already stripped the sheath from the cable and routed it directly around his gas tank, but couldn't secure it in any way. We tried for a few mintues to get something to work, but it just wasn't having it. The only tool he had with him was a huge crescent wrench. I ended up devising a makeshift clutch lever using the crescent wrench as the lever itself. It actually worked, it wasn't great, but they were able to ride. I followed them for a bit, until I was sure things were working as planned, and then I dashed on ahead.

I came to a spot where there was a cave entrance about 3 feet high, and 2 wide. My sound coming down the road must have alarmed the first goat, and he dashed out, and lept from what appeared to be the side of a cliff. I literally saw all four of his hooves in the air as he flew over what appeared to be a complete cliff, on what appeared to be a suicide mission. And then another and another came out of this tiny hole. I think there were eight in all. All of them leaping off of the side of the mountain, probably onto some little goat trail. Then there were the bulls with balls the size of grapefruits... I approached them with caution, and fortunately they all let me by without trouble. 

Another hour later, and I was at the bottom. Three more hours, and I was at the beach, completely wiped. All in all, a great day.

# Huanchaco Itself

I've found this to be a delightful little town. There's plenty of good food to be found. The hostel I'm staying at ([Surf Hostel Meri](http://www.hostelz.com/hostel/+187893-Surf-Hostel-Meri 'This hostel has been very good to me.')) has been an exceptoinally relaxed place to get some things done, surf, and meet friendly people. If you're in search of some downtime and you're in Peru, this is an excellent choice.  
